       Brown Corpus
       ============

This Standard Corpus of Present-Day american English consistes of
1,014,312 words of running text of edited English prose printed in the
United States during the calender year 1961. So far as it has been
possible to determine, the writers were native speakers of American
English. Although all of the material first appeared in print in the
year 1961, some of it was undoubtedly written earlier. However, no
material known to be a second edition or reprint of earlier text has
been included.
 The Corpus is divided into 500 samples of 2000+ words each. each
sample begins at the beginning of a sentence but not necessarily of a
paragraph or other larger division, and each ends at the first sentence-
ending after 2000 words. (In a few cases the count errorneously extended
over this limit.) The samples reprent a wide range of styles
and varieties of prose. verse was not included on the ground that it
presents special linguistic problems different from those of prose.
(Short verse passages quoted in prose samples are kept, however.) drama
was excluded as being the imaginative recreation of sporken discourse,
rather than true written discourse. Fiction was included, but no samples
were admitted which consisted of more than 50% dialogue. Samples were
chosen for their representative quality rather than for any subjectively
determined excellence, The use of the word `standard' in the title of
the Corpus does noy in any way mean that it is put forward as "standard
English"; it merely express the hope that this corpus will be used for
comparative studies where it is important to use the same body of data.
Since the preparation and input of data is a major bottleneck in computer
work, the intent was to make available carefully chosen and prepared
body of material of considerble size in standardized format. The corpus
may further prove to be standard in setting the pattern for the prepara-
tion and presentation of further bodies of data in English or in other
language.

CATEGORIES of Brown Corpus (In total 500 samples)
=================================================


I. Informative Prose     (374 samples)

  A. Press: Reportage  (44)
      Political   (Daily 10, Weekly 4, Total 14)
      Sports      (       5,        2,        7)
      Society     (       3,        0,        3)
      Spot News   (       7,        2,        9)
      Finantial   (       3,        1,        4)
      Cultural    (       5,        2,        7)

  B. Press: Editorial  (27)
      Institutional      (7,        3,       10)
      Personal           (7,        3,       10)
      Letters to the Editor (5,     2,        7)

  C. Press: Reviews (17)
      Theatre, books, music, dance
                        (14,        3,       17)

  D. Religion            (17)
      Books        ( 7)
      Periodicals  ( 6)
      Tracts       ( 4)

  E. Skills and Hobbies  (36)
      Books        ( 2)
      Periodicals  (34)

  F. Popular Lore        (48)
      Books        (23)
      Periodicals  (25)

  G. Belles Letters, Bibliography, Memories, etc (75)
      Books        (38)
      Periodicals  (37)

  H. Miscellaneous       (30)
      Government Documents    (24)
      Foundation Reports      ( 2)
      Industry Reports        ( 2)
      College Catalog         ( 1)
      Industry House Organ    ( 1)

  J. Learned             (80)
      Natural Science                    (12)
      Medicine                           ( 5)
      Mathematics                        ( 4)
      Social and behavioral Sciences     (14)
      Political Science, Law, Education  (15)
      Humanities                         (18)
      Technology and Engineering         (12)

II. Imaginative Prose  (126 Samples)

  K. General Fiction    (29)
      Novels          (20)
      Short Stories   ( 9)

  L. Mystery and Detective Fiction  (24)
      Novels          (20)
      Short Stories   ( 4)

  M. Science Fiction (6)
      Novels          ( 3)
      Short Stories   ( 3)

  N. Adventure and Western Fiction (29)
      Novels          (15)
      Short Stories   (14)

  P. Romance and Love Story (29)
      Novels          (14)
      Short Stories   (15)

  R. Humor ( 9)
      Novels          ( 3)
      Short Stories   ( 6)

